OK in this video we're going to make this animated rainbow text changes colors and then also shrinks
and expands.
So the first thing we'll do is go to a code pen or whatever text editor you'd like to use and add our
single h Kim l element and make this bigger.
Just a paragraph and we'll add our text Hello or whatever text we want to expand and shrink and change
color and that's it.
Now back in my slides there are two steps really to working with keyframes.
The first one is that you define the animation itself.
So on its own nothing will be animated by this code.
Nothing will change immediately if I copied this and pasted it in into my code pen but I would have
to do it then assign the animation to an element.
So it's two steps defining it and then assigning.
So the actual definition itself looks like this.
The basics are to start with at keyframes.
And again I'm not showing all the vendor prefixes you can use a prefix or for that.
So it just at keyframes.
And then after that you must name it this name can be pretty much anything but it should be a name that
encapsulates what the animation does something like jiggle or rainbow text or spin or something like
that depending on what the animation does.
So those are the two beginning things.
And we have open curly brace inclosing curly brace and then inside we define all of our steps we can
add as many steps as we'd like.
I'm just doing 0 percent 25 percent 50 percent 75 and 100.
But if we wanted we could also add in a 6 percent and 7 percent or we could have ZERO 37 percent and
100 and that's it.
So really that's up to you.
And what your estimation requires.
But in our case where we're doing even intervals.
So let's actually go define this now.
So we'll start off with at keyframes rainbow text.
And then inside we just start with 0 percent.
What happens there.
Well we're going to set the color to red and font size to be 20 pixels.
And then at 25 percent and quarter of the way through we want color to now be orange and we're going
to leave font size alone and we'll only change that at 50 percent where we want it to be at its peak.
You want font size to be 40 pixels and color should be yellow.
We make this a bit larger so you can see the whole thing.
So we're part of the way there.
75 percent color is green and that's it.
And then we have 100 percent color is blue and font size goes back to 20 pixels.
OK.
So as I mentioned nothing changes here.
Our paragraph is on style and nothing is affecting it.
So we need to do now is actually apply the animation.
So there's a bunch of new properties here that you haven't seen.
And don't worry we'll go over them in future videos.
There's a lot of properties including a couple that actually aren't here.
But what we can do is just copy this for now.
Go back over to my SEE assess and paste it in and you can see it starts animating right away.
So the first and most important thing I want to highlight is this animation name.
So this must match whatever animation we want it to correspond to.
So rainbow text refers to this animation we define down here.
And so that's the animation that's going to start.
But then there are a couple of other things.
How long do we want it to take animation dasht duration.
Right now it's three seconds.
I could slow it down a lot.
Now you can see it progress is much lower.
I could do it one second and we get a very quick animation.
And of course we can change the timing function just like we did for transition.
So I could do is in perhaps and if I slow it down to get to five seconds you can see the impact that
it has compared to linear
so that should be review of timing functions.
Although the property is called animation timing function not transition.
Then we've got an animation delay.
So this is another thing that's new that we haven't been able to do yet.
Nothing is triggering this animation.
It's running as soon as the page loads.
There's no hover there's no state change that initiated it.
Instead it's going right off the bat.
I could add in a three second delay and if I refresh the page now it's not animating it's not animating
but now it starts animating.
So that's the point of animation delay.
And then we've got iteration count.
So we'll play around more with this.
But as you can see it set to infinite.
So this is how many times the animation runs.
So if we wanted to we could change that to two.
Now if I say if I reload the page OK the animation goes I guess it's a little slow right now five seconds.
But here's our second time through.
And then as you can see it just stops and we're done.
So even in this quick little intro video where we see the syntax for the first time hopefully you can
see we have a lot more control over these animations.
Yes we're doing a trivial silly little thing but there's a lot more that we can do even just with this
single animation to make it rainbow.
We can have it run infinitely ten times one time 50 times you can have a delay and so on and we could
also like I said we could add in another point in here so let's say I wanted to get purple in as well
so I could say that OK.
Eighty five percent.
We're going to set color to blue.
And then at 100 it will turn to purple.
And what will happen here is that we no longer have this evenly spaced interval of color.
So it goes from red to orange to yellow to green.
At the same interval.
But then it quickly jumps to blue and then quickly jumps to purple.
So let me enlarge had a bit so you can see it.
We put this back to infinite affection spell it OK and I'll zoom in and pay attention to how fast it
changes to blue and into purple
as you can see it's much shorter.
So you know we can put whatever we want in here just to show you another example.
I don't have to estimate the same exact properties.
I could do something crazy like halfway through.
Add in a transform let's do translate X and we'll move it 200 pixels across the screen.
So now it's not only changing color and shrinking and growing but it's also moving across the screen.
And this is as good a time as any to mention that yes I'm breaking the rule that I set out earlier that
the four properties you should try and animate are opacity rotate scale and translate which are all
transforms rather than using scale.
I decided to use font size and color and I was really doing that just to make this as clear as possible
and involving the least amount of new information.
But yes if this was going to be on a production site I don't know why you would want this but if you
did it would be much better to replace font size animations with scale which could achieve the exact
same effect but it does it much more efficiently.
OK.
So that wraps up this video.
We saw basically how to define keyframe first.
Give it a name define the individual frames the steps along the way.
And then we saw how to assign it to an element.
In this case all paragraphs which I guess I should specify I add another paragraph here.
They both have this animation.
So it gets annoying very quickly in this case.
And then we have these other properties around things like duration timing function iteration count
and there are actually a couple more that aren't here.
So we'll focus on those later on.